HSE Advisor - Road Safety

Job IdPDO1320
Start DateJul 11, 2023
End DateJul 22, 2023
Compnay NamePetroleum Development Oman
DisciplineHealth, Safety & Environment
No of Position1
Position TypePermanent
Job TypeNot Specified
Nationality Required
Education & Experience Required
Education
Experience
Job Description
About the Company
Petroleum Development Oman is the leading exploration and production company in the Sultanate of Oman. The Company delivers the majority of the country's crude oil production and natural gas supply.

Purpose of the Job
PDO had embraced a major Road Safety Refresh to improve the Road Safety Performance within the company and its contractor and sub-contractors. This include a significant vehicle safety upgrade and rejuviation as per the latest industry Safe Vehicle standards and Companies Specification (SP-2000 and SP-2001). This position will be accountable to coordinate process of upgrading the existing fleets under PDO and PDO contracts vehicles with following responsibilities, but not limited to:

Develop and maintain up-to-date database to include information about vehicles and contracts for successful safety requirement fleet management
Develop and implement risk management systems for fleet management
Coordinate installation of Driver Distraction/Fatigure Management System
Develop and maintain tyre compliance database linked with the vehicle database
Coordinate tyre compliance with premium/industrial standards brands,
Coordinate installation of Tire Pressure Monitoring System,
Coordinate rejuvenation of the existing Fleets with ABS/EBS systems
Assure new contracts are compliant to PDO vehicle standards, this include assurance on existing contract based on the contract cycle
Coordinate actitives with Road safety standard team (RSST) in delivering the scope related to safe vehicles including but not limiting to assurance on Roadworthines Assurance Standard Inspection Center (RASIC), tyre and vehicle workshops, A and B vehicle defects and non compliances)
Coordinate implementation of new technology related to safe vehicles (e.g. speed limiters, or other after Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) implementation)
Support teams in vehicle related subject in implementing load securement standard SP-2001.
Support MVI investigation related to vehicles
Education & Experience
A minimum of a Degree in HSE, Science, Engineering or equivalent
Must possess minimum of 7 years of working experience with minimum 3 Years experience in managing various types of contracts; with experience in Oil & Gas exploration and production business.
Must possess managerial and Interpersonal skills to enable to interact at all levels within the Organisation, Contractors and Government authorities in both Arabic and English languages.
Ability to derive Project Execution Strategies to meet business objectives
 

Main Responsibilities
Manage contracts from Road Safety safe vehicle pillar.
Involved in the Road Safety on site(s) operations with related areas and/or workshops.
Develop a vehicle and tyre database, analyse submitted vehicle and tyre data and ensure weekly/bi-weekly and monthly reports being generated and passed to the relevant parties and MSEM Management Team via MSE/7.
Create a follow-up annual plan covering RSST activities for all PDO Contractors related to assurance on safe vehicles and workshops (RASIC, and tyre and/or maintenance) as per Contract agreements and PDO guidelines.
Attend on road and in yard spot-checks of vehicles safety, as well as maintenance records. Follow-up with Contract holders on closing the gaps related to A and B defects, and other non complinaces related to vehicles.
Ensure the RSST activities related to safe vehicles assurance are being executed as per the annual planned schedule(s) per area.
Attend RSST meetings and activities in various locations in coordination with other MSE7 team members.
Actively participate in analyzing vehicle safety equipment including after OEM installation (e.g. drivers’ fatigue/distraction devices, TPMS or retrofitting of vehicle safe systems ABS/EBS, etc.).
Support the team in root cause analysis in MVI investigation related to vehicle and vehicle load element (vehicle dynimics and relation to speed and road conditions).
Ensure all the submitted activities reports are being circulated to the relevant parties.
Lead In-House Training Providers Monthly meetings and act on any major issues raised.
Seek regular feedback from all involved in the contract activities as well as the end users, both internally within PDO staff community as well as the external parties.
Provider weekly reports to MSE/7 with all highlights and lowlights of all the contracts.
Develop and train Omanis to successfully perform safe vehicle assurance role.
Coordinate with the Line and HSE Team Leads on implementation of Worksite Hazards Programmes like Safety Leadership for Frontline Supervisor, Hazard Hunt activities, 4 Cross-Check, Assurance, Accountability program.
Develop and introduce WHM promotional materials (publications, videos, and other material) in coordination with the Communication Focal Points.
Develop and define the set of tools and workshop materials to effectively introduce and implement the controls identified for mitigation of worksite hazards in PDO and Contractor.  This should be done by integrating the controls with that of the behavioral tools in place.
Proactively monitor the implementation of the programs rolled-out and conduct formal assurance to determine if the control tools identified are being used as intended and deriving the results as projected.
Company Site Representative (CSR) for identified Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) contracts across PDO.
Manage and improve the PPE provision and control within PDO (through continuous improvement projects).
Carry out Safety Inspections and site visits as required.
Analyze Incident Statistics for management reporting requirements and to properly identify areas for Improvement. Find and fix the root causes of any significant issues identified
Prepare and manage WHM budget.
Skills Required
Other Job Details