HSE Advisor - Wells

Job IdPDO1316
Start DateJul 11, 2023
End DateJul 22, 2023
Compnay NamePetroleum Development Oman
DisciplineHealth, Safety & Environment
No of Position1
Position TypePermanent
Job TypeNot Specified
Nationality Required
Education & Experience Required
Education
Experience
Job Description
About the Company
Petroleum Development Oman is the leading exploration and production company in the Sultanate of Oman. The Company delivers the majority of the country's crude oil production and natural gas supply.

Purpose of the Job
Provide Well Engineering with advice and support to effectively implement HSE Management System in the execution of site activities and drive HSE performance across Wells and Contractor community.

Education & Experience
A minimum of a Degree in HSE, Science, Engineering or equivalent
A minimum of 7 years experience in HSE advisory role, preferably in an Oil & Gas industry, including at least 3 years in Well Engineering.
Proven experience as an HSE Data Analyst or in a similar analytical role, preferably in a high-risk industry.
Preferably with a NEBOSH (National Educational Board of Occupational Safety & Health) IGC or NVQ Level 3 or equivalent HSE qualifications.
Good knowledge of spoken and written English. Good communicator, motivator and organiser. Fully computer literate.
Main Responsibilities
Act as Focal Point for Corporate Risk Profile for Worksite Hazards Management.
Act as Process Verifier for Life Saving Rule violation reports in PIM.
Manage and develop system and means to support the (HSE) management of Worksite Hazards through a structured program involving incident data analysis and thematic, training, intervention techniques, tool box talk, consequence management, hazard identification, competence and HSE Leadership…e.g Active engagement with the relevant stakeholders to review risk assessment, Risk Registers where worksite hazards are listed.
Coordinate with the Line and HSE Team Leads on implementation of Worksite Hazards Programmes like Safety Leadership for Frontline Supervisor, Hazard Hunt activities, 4 Cross-Check, Assurance, Accountability program.
Develop and introduce WHM promotional materials (publications, videos, and other material) in coordination with the Communication Focal Points.
Develop and define the set of tools and workshop materials to effectively introduce and implement the controls identified for mitigation of worksite hazards in PDO and Contractor.  This should be done by integrating the controls with that of the behavioral tools in place.
Proactively monitor the implementation of the programs rolled-out and conduct formal assurance to determine if the control tools identified are being used as intended and deriving the results as projected.
Company Site Representative (CSR) for identified Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) contracts across PDO.
Manage and improve the PPE provision and control within PDO (through continuous improvement projects).
Carry out Safety Inspections and site visits as required.
Analyze Incident Statistics for management reporting requirements and to properly identify areas for Improvement. Find and fix the root causes of any significant issues identified
Prepare and manage WHM budget.
Skills Required
Other Job Details
